added walk through of foot and shoulder servo (#67)
NUbots/NUbook: src/book/03-guides/03-hardware/01-working-with-robots.mdx

An ankle alignment may also be necessary when the foot has come loose.

To align an ankle correctly perform the following instructions:

1. On the inner part of the robots leg, unscrew the screws holding the plastic casing to the the ankle and knee servo.
   Remove the plastic casing, as seen in the following image:
   ![leg cover](./images/ankle_leg/leg_cover.jpg 'leg cover')

2. There should be a silver disk, the following photo is a close up:
   ![servo close up](./images/ankle_leg/servo_close.jpg 'servo close up')
   There are three small indents on the silver disk, two on one side and one on the other. The single dot should be pointing towards the ground when the robot is standing and the other two dots towards the head.
   These three dots form an arrow, this arrow should be pointing downwards when the robot is standing.

3. Manually move the disk on the servo so it is in the correct orientation

4. Place the plastic cover back on and replace all the screws. When replacing the screws, one hole must be left without a screw to allow for the servo to move. The hole left without a screw is the largest hole, which can be seen on the right of the following image:

>    ![screw hole](./images/angle_leg/screw_holes.jpg 'screw hole')

Reviewer: This picture is misleading

Reviewer 2: @tayloryoung6396 we were hoping to replace these pictures with renders, could you get them for us?

## Replacing Shoulder servo

1.  Detaching the arm

> - On the shoulder of the robot, there is a ring of screws front and back. Remove all the screws except for the larger centre screw on both sides
> - Remove the arm from the shoulder socket, by carefully stretching the shoulder cuff around the two larger centre screws, it will still be attatched by a wire
> - Take off the long part of plastic between the shoudler and neck, it is held by two screws. This piece of plastic can be seen in the following photo:
>   ![shoulder cover](./images/shoulder/shoulder.jpg 'shoulder cover')
> - Now that the shoulder cover is off, there is a port for the chord that is still keeping the arm in place, detach this and the arm will be completely detached.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - On the shoulder of the robot, there is a ring of screws front and back. Remove all the screws except for the larger centre screw on both sides
    - Remove the arm from the shoulder socket, by carefully stretching the shoulder cuff around the two larger centre screws, it will still be attatched by a wire
    - Take off the long part of plastic between the shoudler and neck, it is held by two screws. This piece of plastic can be seen in the following photo:
    ![shoulder cover](./images/shoulder/shoulder.jpg 'shoulder cover')
    - Now that the shoulder cover is off, there is a port for the chord that is still keeping the arm in place, detach this and the arm will be completely detached.
```

Hopefully this will maintain the numbering on the list

description: How to safely handle and work with robots.
slug: /guides/hardware/working-with-robots
---

## Aligning an Ankle

> An alignment of a ankle may need to be done if the foot and the leg of the robot aren't perpendicular when standing. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An alignment of an ankle may need to be done if the foot and the leg of the robot aren't perpendicular when standing. 
```

An ankle alignment may also be necessary when the foot has come loose. 

To align an ankle correctly perform the following instructions:

1. On the inner part of the robots leg, unscrew the screws holding the plastic casing to the the ankle and knee servo. 
Remove the plastic casing, as seen in the following image:
![leg cover](./images/ankle_leg/leg_cover.jpg 'leg cover')

2. There should be a silver disk, the following photo is a close up:
![servo close up](./images/ankle_leg/servo_close.jpg 'servo close up')
There are three small indents on the silver disk, two on one side and one on the other. The single dot should be pointing towards the ground when the robot is standing and the other two dots towards the head.

> These three dots form an arrow, this arrow should be pointing downwards when the robot is standing.

Reviewer: This description is open ended when describing any joint. It would be better to specify the actual hole on the printed part that each arrow should point to in the zero position

Author: @tayloryoung6396  not sure what you mean by " specify the actual hole on the printed part " not sure what printed part on the foot/ankle you are referring to

Reviewer: Maybe a render of the printed part, with a red circle around the specific hole that the horn points towards. Could be in a subsection with renders for each part

3. Manually move the disk on the servo so it is in the correct orientation 

> 4. Place the plastic cover back on and replace all the screws. When replacing the screws, one hole must be left without a screw to allow for the servo to move. The hole left without a screw is the largest hole, which can be seen on the right of the following image:

Reviewer: Again, "one hole must be left without a screw" . I would specifically annotate the image (or a render of the part) with the specific hole

Reviewer 3: We sorely need this, while most parts are reasonably intuitive (arrow points to next servo in the chain), some of them are very non-intuitive

Reviewer 5: It might not be like this anymore, but I went the arrow supposed to point away from the hard stop on the servo? So that when it rotates it will always rotate away from the hard stop?

Reviewer 3: Oh that might be it! It would explain why we had a `pi/4` offset on the shoulder pitches too

Reviewer: Just make a render... removes all issues

![screw hole](./images/angle_leg/screw_holes.jpg 'screw hole')

## Replacing Shoulder servo

1. Detatching the arm

>     - On the shoulder of the robot, there is a ring of screws front and back. Remove all the screws and the larger centre screw on both sides

Reviewer: Which larger centre screw? Removing any screw from the centre (the screw the holds the servo horn onto the servo) can cause issues when trying to realign these

Reviewer 3: When disconnecting plastic covers from the servos it is never necessary to remove the large center bolt. Only the smaller bolts in the outer ring need be removed.

Author: Yep thanks, I will remove that

    - Remove the arm from the shoulder socket, it will still be attatched by a wire
    - Take off the long part of plastic between the shoudler and neck, it is held by two screws. This piece of plastic can be seen in the following photo:
    ![shoulder cover](./images/shoulder/shoulder.jpg 'shoulder cover')
    - Now that the piece is off, there is a port for the chord that is still keeping the arm in place, detach this and the arm will be completely detatched
2. Detatching the shoulder
    - Looking in the shoulder socket there is another circle of screws, remove these and the shoulder will detatch
    Note: Two plastic spacers should also fall out
3. Removing the servo
    - Remove and disconnect the boards and fans neccessary to access the shoulder servo from the inside, make sure to note any chords you detatch
    - On the outside of the robot where the shoulder socket detatched, remove the four screws mounting the servo to the robots body
    - There is a plastic holder inside the robot holding each shoulder servos in place, slide this towards the robots back to unclip the servos to allow it to fall freely out of its slot

4. Mechanically testing the servo

>     - Remove the circular metal plate from the servo, get the plastic servo testor to test if the servo rotates freely without any clunks. If it doesn't rotate or is clunky, it needs replacing

Reviewer 3: I would avoid removing the horn unless deemed absolutely necessary as you can inadvertently put the servos calibration out. Using an allen key (or hex key) in the center bolt that is holding the horn on to the servo will allow you to turn the horn without disrupting the servos calibration.

5. Installing a new servo
    - Get the new servo set with the same serial number on the box

>     - Connect the metal circualr disk that came in the box on the new servo, ensuring you line up the indents on the metal disk and servo

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Connect the metal circular disk that came in the box on the new servo, ensuring you line up the indents on the metal disk and servo
```

>     - Connect the metal circular disk that came in the box on the new servo, ensuring you line up the indents on the metal disk and servo

Reviewer 3: At this point it would be a good idea to connect the servo to Dynamixel Wizard and ensure the correct ID and baud rate are set. It is easier to do this now rather than after the servo is inside the robot. You can also check that the servo is properly calibrated by setting the goal position to a couple of different values (0 degress, +90 degrees, -90 degrees) and ensuring the arrow on the horn (the three dots) are pointing in the correct direction. It is also worth testing that the servo behaves correctly around the 180 degree point, if you set the goal position to 170 degrees and then to 190 degrees it should take the long way around to get there.

Author: So do you recommend I add testing the servo before putting it in and then also testing it once the shoulder and arm is on? If the plastic part of the shoulder isn't attached straight, it will also be off when at 0, 90 and -90 degrees.

Reviewer: 5. Installing a new servo
    - Get the new servo set with the same serial number on the box (e.g. MX64 or MX106)
    - Connect the metal circualr disk that came in the box on the new servo, ensuring you line up the indents on the metal disk and servo
    - Using the dynamixel wizard, confirm the correct baud rate and ID of the servo. You can also check that the servo is properly calibrated by setting the goal position to a couple of different values (0 degress, +90 degrees, -90 degrees) and ensuring the arrow on the horn (the three dots) are pointing in the correct direction. It is also worth testing that the servo behaves correctly around the 180 degree point (wheel mode), if you set the goal position to 170 degrees and then to 190 degrees it should take the long way around to get there.
    - Place the servo into the body, put back the plastic holder and reconnect all the chords that were disconnected in the 'removing servo' step
    - Rescrew the four screws that were taken out 
    - The arms of the robot should be directly outwards when set to 0 degrees. This means you need to orientate the server before placing the shoulder back on. 
    The single indent needs to be towards the front of the robot, and the two dots towards its back, this ensures the robots shoulder will be correctly aligned.

Reviewer 3: Yea, it is a lot easier to work with the servo and Dynamixel Wizard while the servo is outside of the robot, and if you need to do calibration Dynamixel Wizard will refuse to do it if more than one servo is connected. Testing once the robot is fully assembled can be done by running scripts and ensuring the correct pose is achieved.

>     - Place the servo into the body, put back the plastic holder and reconnect all the chords that were disconnected in the 'removing servo' step

Reviewer: cords

    - Rescrew the four screws that were taken out 

>     - The arms of the robot should be directly outwards when set to 0 degrees. This means you need to orientate the server before placing the shoulder back on. 

Reviewer 4: Directly outwards? how do you mean?

Reviewer 3: A picture of this would be very helpful given how many issues we had getting this right.

Author: I will get more images later this week and add them in

    On the metal circular disk that was placed on, there are small indents in the metal, two on one side and one on the other.
    The single indent needs to be towards the front of the robot, and the two dots towards its back, this ensures the robots shoulder will be correctly aligned.

6. Reconstruction 

>     - Now attach the shoulder back on, ensuring you put back the plastic spacers and leave one hole without a screw (the biggest hole in the circle of screws). The shoulder should also be placed on

Reviewer 3: More pictures

    with correct orientation. On the shoulder there is one side of raised up plastic, two sides with the holes for the screws and a shorter side. The side with the shortest bit of plastic should be faced frontwards,
    the same direction the metal circular disk was orientated.
    - Connect the chord of the arm again to the slot between the shoulder and head

>     - slide the arm in place and rescrew the arm to the shoulder

Reviewer 3: The arrow on the servo horn also needs to point in a very specific direction here as well

Author: The metal circular disk is the horn, I thought new recruits might not know its called a horn. Should I put that in?

Reviewer: Maybe at the start of this section, include a part on they different servos (mx64 mx106) and what a flywheel and horn are

Reviewer 3: We should use correct terms wherever possible. You are right though, new recruits are unlikely to know these terms. We will have to make another page (or add to this page) details about the servos (might make more sense on the page where we detail how to change the gear set in the servo).

To be more specific
-  The horn is more of a bronze-ish colour. It has the three dots that form the arrow on it. It won't spin freely by hand (you will almost always need to use an allen/hex key as a lever to make it spin)
- The flywheel sits on the opposite side of the servo (not all servo in the robot have a flywheel attahced). The flywheel is silver and it free-spinning (you can flick it with you finger and it will spin happily)

Author: Good idea, I will add that section and get some photos as well

7. Testing 

>     - Now the shoulder needs to be calibrated, see servo calibration for this. 

Reviewer 4: We should remember to add a link to the servo calibration page here once that page is added

Reviewer: The servo calibration should never be done here. The servo should be calibrated prior to putting it in the robot. The "testing" should consist of running a couple of known scripts for sanity.

description: How to safely handle and work with robots.
slug: /guides/hardware/working-with-robots
---

> ## Aligning an Ankle

Reviewer: Not sure what this page is about specifically? If it's aimed at replacing servos maybe the page should be called that. With a section for each servo that you might want to replace

   These three dots form an arrow, this arrow should be pointing downwards when the robot is standing.

3. Manually move the disk on the servo so it is in the correct orientation

4. Place the plastic cover back on and replace all the screws. When replacing the screws, one hole must be left without a screw to allow for the servo to move. The hole left without a screw is the largest hole, which can be seen on the right of the following image:
   ![screw hole](./images/angle_leg/screw_holes.jpg 'screw hole')

## Replacing Shoulder servo

1.  Detatching the arm

- On the shoulder of the robot, there is a ring of screws front and back. Remove all the screws and the larger centre screw on both sides
- Remove the arm from the shoulder socket, it will still be attatched by a wire
- Take off the long part of plastic between the shoudler and neck, it is held by two screws. This piece of plastic can be seen in the following photo:
  ![shoulder cover](./images/shoulder/shoulder.jpg 'shoulder cover')

> - Now that the piece is off, there is a port for the chord that is still keeping the arm in place, detach this and the arm will be completely detatched

Reviewer: cord

Reviewer: although cable is probably more correct

2. Detatching the shoulder
   - Looking in the shoulder socket there is another circle of screws, remove these and the shoulder will detatch
     Note: Two plastic spacers should also fall out
3. Removing the servo

>    - Remove and disconnect the boards and fans neccessary to access the shoulder servo from the inside, make sure to note any chords you detatch

Reviewer: cord

Reviewer: although cable is probably more correct

Author: Yep, I did change that but i lost all my changes yesterday and forgot about this one, thanks

   - On the outside of the robot where the shoulder socket detatched, remove the four screws mounting the servo to the robots body
   - There is a plastic holder inside the robot holding each shoulder servos in place, slide this towards the robots back to unclip the servos to allow it to fall freely out of its slot

4. Mechanically testing the servo

>    - Get an screw driver that fits the middle screw in the servo horn. Rotate the hornto test if the servo rotates freely without any clunks. If it doesn't rotate or is clunky, it needs replacing

Reviewer: 3mm Hex bit

   - Place the servo into the body, put back the plastic holder and reconnect all the cords that were disconnected in the 'removing servo' step
   - Rescrew the four screws that were taken out
   - The arm of the robot should be staight and perpendicular to the body when the shoulder is set to 0 degrees. This means you need to orientate the server before placing the shoulder back on.
     On the horn, there are three small indents in the metal, which form an arrow. The point of the arrow needs to be towards the front of the robot, and the two dots towards its back, this ensures the robots shoulder will be correctly aligned.

6. Reconstruction

>    - Now attach the shoulder back on, ensuring you put back the plastic spacers and leave one hole without a screw (the biggest hole in the circle of screws). The shoulder should also be placed on

Reviewer: Which shoulder part are you putting back on here? If it's the one I think, there is no hole without a screw

     with correct orientation. On the shoulder there is one side of raised up plastic, two sides with the holes for the screws and a shorter side. The side with the tall bit of plastic without screw holes should be faced frontwards,
     the same direction the horn was orientated. The shoulder should look like it is on backwards.

>      ![shoulder orientation](./images/shoulder/shoulder_orientation2.jpg 'shoulder orientation')

Reviewer: The orientation of the printed part on the horn in this picture is incorrect

## Aligning an Ankle

<<<<<<< HEAD
An alignment of an ankle may need to be done if the foot and the leg of the robot aren't perpendicular when standing.
An ankle alignment may also be necessary when the foot has come loose.
=======
An alignment of an ankle may need to be done if the foot and the leg of the robot aren't perpendicular when standing.
An ankle alignment may also be necessary when the foot has come loose.

> > > > > > > > 8f25ae92838312b8020ba3e2a14bd2ceeaf324c5

Reviewer 3: This is what a git merge conflict looks like. You need to choose the section that has the correct content and delete the other section (or create some mixture of the two sections). You need to also remove the `<<<<<<< HEAD`, `=======`, and `>>>>>>> 8f25ae92838312b8020ba3e2a14bd2ceeaf324c5` bits

Author: Are they still on my latest commit?

Reviewer 3: Oh, nevermind. I haven't had enough coffee yet :P

1.  Detatching the arm

> - On the shoulder of the robot, there is a ring of screws front and back. Remove all the screws and the larger centre screw on both sides

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- On the shoulder of the robot, there is a ring of screws front and back. Remove all the screws except for the larger centre screw on both sides
```

> - Remove the arm from the shoulder socket, it will still be attatched by a wire

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Remove the arm from the shoulder socket by carefully stretching the shoulder cuff around the two larger centre screws, it will still be attatched by a wire
```

- Take off the long part of plastic between the shoudler and neck, it is held by two screws. This piece of plastic can be seen in the following photo:
  ![shoulder cover](./images/shoulder/shoulder.jpg 'shoulder cover')

> - Now that the piece is off, there is a port for the chord that is still keeping the arm in place, detach this and the arm will be completely detatched

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Now that the shoulder cover is off, there is a port for the chord that is still keeping the arm in place, detach this and the arm will be completely detached
```

> 2. Detatching the shoulder

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Detaching the shoulder
```

>    - Looking in the shoulder socket there is another circle of screws, remove these and the shoulder will detatch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - Looking in the shoulder socket there is another circle of screws, remove these and the shoulder will detach. Do not remove the larger centre screw
```

     Note: Two plastic spacers should also fall out
3. Removing the servo

>    - Remove and disconnect the boards and fans neccessary to access the shoulder servo from the inside, make sure to note any chords you detatch
>    - On the outside of the robot where the shoulder socket detatched, remove the four screws mounting the servo to the robots body

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - Remove and disconnect the boards and fans necessary to access the shoulder servo from the inside, make sure to note any chords you detach
   - On the outside of the robot where the shoulder socket detached, remove the four screws mounting the servo to the robots body
```

>    - There is a plastic holder inside the robot holding each shoulder servos in place, slide this towards the robots back to unclip the servos to allow it to fall freely out of its slot

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - There is a plastic holder inside the robot holding each of the shoulder servos in place, slide this towards the robots back to unclip the servos to allow it to fall freely out of its slot
```

4. Mechanically testing the servo

>    - Get an screw driver that fits the middle screw in the servo horn. Rotate the hornto test if the servo rotates freely without any clunks. If it doesn't rotate or is clunky, it needs replacing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - Get a screw driver that fits the middle screw in the servo horn. Rotate the horn to test if the servo rotates freely without any clunks. If it doesn't rotate or is clunky, it needs replacing
```

   - Connect the metal circular disk (horn) that came in the box on the new servo, ensuring you line up the indents on the metal disk and servo
   - Before placing the servo into the robot it needs to be calibrated. Using the dynamixel wizard, confirm the correct baud rate and ID of the servo. You can also check that the servo is properly calibrated by setting the goal position to a couple of different values (0 degress, +90 degrees, -90 degrees) and ensuring the arrow on the horn (the three dots) are pointing in the correct direction. It is also worth testing that the servo behaves correctly around the 180 degree point (wheel mode), if you set the goal position to 170 degrees and then to 190 degrees it should take the long way around to get there.
   - Place the servo into the body, put back the plastic holder and reconnect all the cords that were disconnected in the 'removing servo' step
   - Rescrew the four screws that were taken out
   - The arm of the robot should be staight and perpendicular to the body when the shoulder is set to 0 degrees. This means you need to orientate the server before placing the shoulder back on.

>      On the horn, there are three small indents in the metal, which form an arrow. The point of the arrow needs to be towards the front of the robot, and the two dots towards its back, this ensures the robots shoulder will be correctly aligned.

Reviewer 3: I think this part is misleading/contradictory when compared with the next section (and the picture). Best to leave this part to the next section since this actually relates to attaching the shoulder socket

Author: I moved it to the next section and also changed the text to match the picture.

6. Reconstruction

>    - Now attach the shoulder back on, ensuring you put back the plastic spacers and leave one hole without a screw (the biggest hole in the circle of screws). The shoulder should also be placed on

Reviewer 3: The shoulder socket doesn't have any screws left out, all screws in the ring are used.
